Add warnings for wrong values of model_confidence parameter (#8014)
RasaHQ/rasa: changelog/8014.bugfix.md

Setting `model_confidence=cosine` in `DIETClassifier`, `ResponseSelector` and `TEDPolicy` is deprecated and will no longer be available. This was introduced in Rasa Open Source version `2.3.0` but post-release experiments suggest that using cosine similarity as model's confidences can change the ranking of predicted labels which is wrong.

> Also, `model_confidence=inner` is deprecated and is replaced by `model_confidence=linear_norm` as the former produced an unbounded range of confidences which broke the logic of assistants in various other places.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`model_confidence=inner` is deprecated and is replaced by `model_confidence=linear_norm` as the former produced an unbounded range of confidences which broke the logic of assistants in various other places.
```

> Users are now encouraged to try `model_confidence=linear_norm` which will produce a linearly normalized version of dot product similarities with each value in the range `[0,1]`. This can be done as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We encourage you to try `model_confidence=linear_norm` which will produce a linearly normalized version of dot product similarities with each value in the range `[0,1]`. This can be done with the following config:
```

```yaml
- name: DIETClassifier

>   model_confidence: inner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  model_confidence: linear_norm
```

  constrain_similarities: True
```

> This should ease up tuning fallback thresholds as confidences for wrong predictions are better distributed across the range `[0, 1]`.

Reviewer: please mention the fallback classifier here and link to it

Author: Linking it to the dedicated page on fallback handoff as it covers both NLU and Core fallback

> If an assistant was trained with `model_confidence=cosine` or `model_confidence=inner` setting using previous versions of Rasa Open Source, it should be re-trained by either removing the `model_confidence` option from the configuration or setting it to `linear_norm`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you trained a model with `model_confidence=cosine` or `model_confidence=inner` setting using previous versions of Rasa Open Source, please re-train by either removing the `model_confidence` option from the configuration or setting it to `linear_norm`
```

> Also, `model_confidence=cosine` is removed from the configuration generated by [auto-configuration](model-configuration.mdx#suggested-config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`model_confidence=cosine` is removed from the configuration generated by [auto-configuration](model-configuration.mdx#suggested-config).
```

> Setting `model_confidence=cosine` in `DIETClassifier`, `ResponseSelector` and `TEDPolicy` is deprecated and will be removed in the next Rasa Open Source minor version `2.4.0`. Experiments suggest that using cosine similarity as model's confidences can change the ranking of predicted labels. Additionally, using `model_confidence=inner` for `TEDPolicy` is discouraged as it currently breaks the action selection logic in the ensemble of policies.

Reviewer: why are we allowing the inner model confidence for TEDPolicy in the first place then?

> Setting `model_confidence=cosine` in `DIETClassifier`, `ResponseSelector` and `TEDPolicy` is deprecated and will be removed in the next Rasa Open Source minor version `2.4.0`. Experiments suggest that using cosine similarity as model's confidences can change the ranking of predicted labels. Additionally, using `model_confidence=inner` for `TEDPolicy` is discouraged as it currently breaks the action selection logic in the ensemble of policies.

Reviewer: and can we say when we introduced the cosine thing and phrase it more as that we made a mistake?
